# Chan Healing

Question:Ven. Master,Last Saturday, our four brothers and sisters were very blessed to personally receive your generous Chan teachings.I would like to ask two questions:​1. Normally I feel a chill in my body, however when I sit in meditation, I would feel hot and even perspire. Is that a good state and why?      2. In one of your books, you mentioned a disciple who reached Eighth samadhi. Thanks to the Chan practice she was cured of cancer. If illnesses are the results of our past karmic offenses, such as killing karmas, then what role does practicing Chan have in settling these types of karmic debts?Thank you very much.​TNQ  Answer:It was very nice to finally meet with you. I hope that you will continue to keep up your Chan practice and further develop your samadhi power.Your body’s chilling sensations are due to poor blood circulation. The way we practice Chan helps quickly remedies that by focusing on our dan-tien. Furthermore, your concentration has greatly increased thus generating more body heat and causing perspiration. Keep up and good work.You are probably referring to one of my disciples who surpassed the Eighth samadhi and who successfully managed to put her cancer in remission. She was ordered by her doctor to get off the medication that she was supposed to take for the rest of her life.It was a combination of the Medicine Master Buddha Dharma and Chan meditation that healed her. In her case, the Medicine Master Buddha Dharma brought her cancer under control and her daily Chan practice kept her karmic debts in check.In general, Chan is a very powerful form of repentance and debt repayment. That is why Chan practitioners invariably become healthier. All of our Chan students who have practiced with us the past several years have had similar experiences.