# Peaceful Country

Question:Greetings to you, Master.​I am 17 years and am in school. Please tell me what I can do to learn Buddhism daily so that I can help others, wishing for my country to be at peace and my countrymen safe and happy.      Answer:This is a good question from a good young man. I wish I had thoughts like that when I was your age. It would have saved me a lot of time.I would like to suggest looking at the Confucian model from the Buddhist perspective:Rectify yourself: correct your mistakes. In particular, learn about the Five Precepts and Bodhisattva Precepts. Observing precepts is the ultimate form of cleansing oneself.Keep your family harmonious: Learn to love, respect and cooperate with the people that count the most in your life. The Asian culture tends to be weaker in interpersonal and communication skills. Look for ways to improve yourself in that area. You should seriously consider cultivating samadhi: for example, practice Chan to develop concentration which unfolds wisdom. Wise people make the right decisions and are in a better position to help others.Govern the country: Acquire real skills to contribute to society. Learn to sacrifice yourself for the greater good of the people.Pacify the world: Broaden your mind to benefit all, not just your countrymen. Become a citizen of the world and seek to truly benefit all living beings.Start with baby steps; do instead of talk. Become Buddhist and receive the Precepts. Then find a good meditation teacher: this will help you develop the strength and knowledge to help others.If I need to summarize it for you: find a good and wise teacher or role model. These people tend to not be greedy for fame or money.