# Selling Buddhism

​Question:NaMo Buddha.​Greetings to you, Master YongHua. I am also studying Buddhism. The Buddha came to our world out of his measureless kindness and compassion. He wants all of us to recognize and believe in ourselves and accept the law of cause of effect. How can there possibly be seeking and praying to spirits and ghosts to get responses [not clear from Vietnamese question].       How can there be responses or results from the Medicine Master Buddha and Rebirth Dharmas as you explained to your disciples? Selling and buying Buddhism is contrary to the Buddha’s teachings. The Buddhist disciples’ faith are already weak as it already is. I hope that you will correct the erroneous teachings so that they are consistent with the true principles.​Thank you.  Answer:I appreciate your input. You are right in saying that you are still learning about Buddhism. May I say that you have quite a long way to go in light of the wording and protocol you used, and your lack of understanding of the principles?However, I’d like to briefly answer your points in order to express my appreciation of your sincerity and constructive questions.Before you jump to conclusions, please invest more time investigating the Medicine Master Buddha and Rebirth Dharmas. We are not praying to ghosts and spirits to obtain responses. If we do pray at all, it’s to the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.I learned these Dharmas from Great Master Xuan Hua. We use the same Dharmas which are also utilized in the Chinese temples of his predecessor, Great Master Xu Yun. These Dharmas have been passed down for generations and have been practiced by the patriarchs who are in direct lineage of the Buddha. I am not sure where you have been learning your Buddhism. To say that it’s all the same is tantamount to saying that all universities and diplomas are the same!Who’s saying that there is selling or buying? They are just another form of donations to the Triple Jewel in order to do the Buddha’s work.You may say that your temples do not have such Dharmas. I say that maybe that your temples do not know about them.If there are no responses from these Dharmas then millions of smart and astute Asian Buddhist disciples many of whom have PhD’s and are successful business people have been duped. It would be arrogant to assume that you would know more than they do. Just talk to people who have obtained such responses before rejecting the Proper Dharma.Those who are truly blessed will believe in the Great Dharmas. The deeper the faith, the greater the responses.I wish you success in all your endeavors.