# Almost Deviant Sex

Question:Ven. Master:I am a Buddhist who resolved to receive the Five Precepts. I am concerned about the correct behavior I should have to observe the Deviant Sex Precept. I did learn about the Five Precepts but unfortunately my knowledge is rather limited. I thought that the Deviant Sex Precept applied to married people only. Upon reviewing my actions, I think I violated the Deviant Sex Precept with a male friend who also comes to the temple but who has not received the Five Precepts.      Once, we got together and shared a bed. We touched each other but did not go all the way. I am very worried that I violated the Deviant Sex Precept and wonder what can be done to reduce the retribution for the infractions. Does reciting the Buddha’s name help reduce the offense?Please kindly tell me what to do to address this problem.​Na Mo Fundamental Teacher Shakyamuni Buddha.M  Answer: Yes, you both violated the Deviant Sex Precept. However, it’s repentable because you did not violate the UNREPENTABLE part. Your male friend did not violate the Deviant Sex Precept per se but still violated the Precept of the Nature. I can’t go into the details because I can only explain this to those who have received the Five Precepts.I wish that left home people received better training about the precepts before transmitting them to avoid this type of problem. As you can well imagine, this situation happens quite frequently. Yes, reciting the Buddha’s will help eradicate the offense. However, if you continue to violate the precept, no repentance Dharma will work.While it’s commendable that you wish to observe the Five Precepts, once you start touching each other it’s quite difficult to stop. If you wish to continue this sexual relationship, you should relinquish the Deviant Sex Precept.