# Donation to Lotus Sutra

Question:Na Mo Emituofo.Master, I made a vow when I was younger to make offerings to the Lotus Sutra. Now that I have grown up and conditions have matured to fulfill my childhood vow, could you please give addresses of temples or pure abodes that are in need and whose assembly often recites the Lotus Sutra so that I can come and make offerings to them?​Thank you very much.      Answer:It’s very kind of you to decide to support those who cultivate the Dharma Flower/Lotus Sutra. I still remember how difficult it was to lack resources such as sutras to use in cultivation.Unfortunately, I do not know of specific Way places in need.If I may offer my two cents worth, you might want to instead concentrate on Way places that have serious cultivators who are practicing Mahayana. This is consistent with your desire to make offerings to the Lotus Sutra because it is one of the three Mahayana Sutras. Good cultivators need support in order to practice these Mahayana Dharmas. As such, you can make regular offerings to the various Mahayana temples where there are true cultivators. I unfortunately cannot make public recommendations because I try to avoid publicly favoring one temple over another. Nor do I wish my senior sanghans to scold me for still harboring a discriminating mind.Furthermore, you may also want to focus on making offerings to print good and accurate translations of Mahayana sutras. I can be specific on this, most of the Vietnamese translations of the Sutras are inaccurate because even though the translators understand the words or language, they do not quite understand the Dharma they translate. Therefore, you should ask the “experts” who explain and translate sutras to make recommendations. I am not qualified since I am but a small time monk who lacks wisdom.Finally, I applaud your sincerity. I hope that you will meet with the proper Good Knowing Advisor who can guide you to channel your enthusiasm and kindness into ending suffering and attaining bliss.​Best wishes!