# Samadhi & Astral Body

Question:Master and venerated Good Knowing Advisers:I am a lay person who does not understand the various samadhi levels and certifications. I hope that you will kindly instruct me.Recently, when I meditate, I can see my soul leave my body. At first, I could see nothing because it’s very dark. A year later, I begin to be able to see things when my soul leaves my body, reaching heights. And I can also see bright lights during the day as well as at night time.What level of samadhi is this? Please elaborate.​NX       Answer:To have an astral body leave the body is quite common with mediators. If that happens frequently then you may want to consider seeking a Good Knowing Adviser to ask for guidance.It takes no real significant samadhi level to have an astral body or see light. You should not be overly attached.Unfortunately, I cannot elaborate any more because this belongs the realm of the Dharma of Seeking for instructions from a Good Knowing Adviser.Seeking help from a Good Knowing Adviser is a way to express our sincerity and therefore requires you to come and make the request in person. It cannot be done via mail or indirectly. In some cases, even when you personally come and request for instructions and fail to prove your sincerity, you will not be instructed. That happened to me personally: I came from thousands of miles for instructions and left empty handed.When I certified the samadhi level of my students, that was done because of great conditions matured. It was not a casual thing. Unfortunately, many of my students still fail to understand that it is a great gift: so many cultivators devote their entire lifetime to cultivation and yet not know what level of samadhi they have reached.​I wish you the best luck in finding a competent Good Knowing Adviser to provide guidance.