# Mentor

Question:Dear Master,​Thank you so much for the 3 days retreat in Hawaii. It was a really great surprise to me, because the retreat was very powerful, and I feel I made some progress by the end of this retreat, which is very encouraging after a long period of regress in my meditation practice.      I particularly appreciate your straightforward advices, which gave me a clear direction in my future practice. On the other hand, the more I listen to your Dharma talks, the more I feel I need your guidance.While I am still looking for good knowing adviser in Hawaii, which seems impossible at this moment because I have visited all temples and meditation places on this island, may I sincerely ask for your guidance via Q&A until the time is coming?I started to practice meditation about 2 years ago. I felt some noticeable changes in my body and mind, which leaded me to have full faith on Buddhism. So I began to read all types of Buddhism related books which are available in Chinese, the main Sutras I recite frequently or read for a few times are: Store Earth Sutra, Diamond Sutra, Shurangama Sutra, and Lotus Sutra. I recite Amitabha for 10 breaths from the beginning of this year, and just became a vegetarian a few months ago.Regarding Pure Land Dharma door that you recommended me to practice, I have tried to recite Sutras, Mantras, and bow to the Buddha 108 etc., however, I am not very interested in Sunday’s ritual which is held in many temples. One reason is that the ritual is quite complicated which makes my mind running wildly, it’s also time consuming. Therefore, do you think if I can practice Pure Land mainly at home first? Also, should I focus on reciting Amitabha Sutra from now on?​Emituofo!YQZ, Hawaii  Answer:The sincerity of the Hawaii practitioners made our trip quite rewarding.We enjoyed cultivating with all of you. You have real potential. I hope that you will persevere in your practice.I’ve assigned a very competent mentor to work with you to help provide assistance long-distance via email, telephone or other means.She’ll help you set up goals and steps to reach those goals.​Of course, if need be, you can always email me or contact me directly.