# Reciting Sutras

​Question:Emituofo!Master:I am Buddhist but know very little about Buddhism. I used to go to the temple but rarely bowed to the Buddhas. I would look inside and half bowed to the images.​Two years ago, my mother was upset with work and committed suicide. The master who came to recite for her encouraged me to recite suttras. At first I recited the Earth Store Sutra. Then I recited the Lotus Sutra.      I was also advised to transfer the merit and virtue to help my mother obtain liberation. Since then I was able to learn a little bit more about the principles. However, whenever I recited the sutras, my mind was chaotic and I had a hard time concentrating on the recitation. I’d like to ask you to teach me how to be able to concentrate on reciting sutras or mantras so that I can have clarity and purity of mind and thus enable me to obtain grater benefits as well as understand more about Buddhism.I am grateful for your guidance.I wish you good health.Emituofo.​LDN  Answer:I sincerely hope that your mother received help to obtain liberation. Her manner of death is not good. She most likely fell to the lower realms!You have blessings to receive guidance on your practice. Unfortunately, you still do not understand how to practice.Do you know why you are able to recite sutras? It’s from creating merit and virtues: you helped print sutras, make offerings to the Triple Jewel etc… The critical first step in cultivation is to plant blessings.Please continue to make even more offerings to Mahayana and eventually your mind will increasingly at peace.I like to advise my students to bow to the Buddhas. I am enclosing a dharma talk on bowing with the reply email for your reference. Bowing is one of the most important dharmas for beginners because it creates inconceivable blessings.After you create blessings, make sure to ask the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas to help find a good knowing adviser in order to learn Mahayana.​When you have adequate blessings, then you will enjoy Mahayana books such as those of Great Master Xuan Hua or his disciples. When you have even greater blessings, then you will find a wise teacher.