# Leaving this world

​Question:Emituofo,Master,I have a few questions for you. Please explain.​1. At the time of death: the hot spot at the forehead results a rebirth into the heavens; the hot spot at the chest results a rebirth in human realm; the hot spots at the feet result a falling to hells or animal realm. Is that right, Master? What materials, sutras would mention about this matter?      2. Sitting meditation in full lotus position and in half lotus position, which one has more effect in concentration and having less fault thoughts?3. Do people need to take precepts before leaving their home lives? Can people receive Bhikshu precepts before becoming Bhikshus?Sincerely yours,​NPP   ​Answer:1. There is a Chinese verse that says that when the last warm part of the body is the:a. Top of the head: Birth to the Buddhas’ Pure Lands,b. Eye/forehead: Birth onto the Heavens,c. Heart: Birth to the Human realm,d. Stomach: To go to the Hungry Ghosts realm,e. Knees: To fall to the Animal realm,f. Bottom of the foot: To sink down to the hells.That is in general, but it’s not necessary always like that. For example, after death, we still can use the 49-day Dharma to help the deceased obtain a better rebirth (rebirth into a better realm).2. Sitting in full lotus position is more difficult, therefore is a lot more effective. Caution: do not to meditate alone because it’s easy to get into trouble. It’s better to have a teacher to guide you. People who are blessed are able to find a teacher who knows where they are and guide them to higher samadhi levels.3. Before receiving precepts, you have to study them. At our temple, before we transmit the five precepts, Buddhists must attend the five precepts class. Let alone left home people.​Bhikshu precepts are transmitted to left home people. Do not even read the precepts unless you are given permission because that is considered to be Dharma theft: a quite serious offense