# Inquiring About Shurangama Mantra

Question:I received the Five precepts but often violated the Deviant Sex and Not Taking Intoxicants Precepts.am 24 years old. Initially, after a night of partying, it feels normal and satisfying.​However, after I learned about Buddhism I realized that I was creating offenses. Ever since then, every time I go out, I feel a little sad inside and also would feel guilty, especially whenever I look at the Buddha statues.       Nevertheless, I never could consistently have real self-control.Recently, I encounter the Shurangama Sutra and believed in the magical power of the Shurangama Mantra. Furthermore, when Great Master Xuan Hua explained the Mantra, he said that those who maintain it should avoid getting angry or must keep the precepts purely or else the Mantra would lose most of its effectiveness.Ven. Master, I wish to maintain the Shurangama Mantra in order to overcome my desires, control my anger and maintain the pure precepts. I still am not vegetarian, is it Ok to maintain the Mantra?Please kindly instruct me.Emituofo,TD  Answer:The Hinayana Buddhists have a Dharma called the Contemplation of the Impure which is very effective at eliminating greed and desire. You do not need to be vegetarian, and can eat onion and garlic. Eventually, you will be able to maintain the Precepts and attain Arhatship.Still, Mahayana has many more dharma doors to deal with greed and desire. In particular, the Shurangama Mantra is most effective at eliminating sexual desire. However, it is highly advisable to be vegetarian and avoid eating the five pungent plants in order to maximize its effectiveness. You may realize enlightenment with this dharma door.You should maintain the Shurangama Mantra. In time, your desires will lessen and you will naturally be more inclined to maintain precepts, become vegetarian and with time, you will enjoy keeping the precepts.​The important thing is to find a competent good knowing adviser who can transmit to you. The Mahayana Dharmas which have stricter requirements, tend to produce more significant and desirable results.