# Premonition Dream

Question:​Hello Master,I am [JT]’s friend [PL]. I came and stayed there one night at the temple, and was thankful for the advice given. I am doing better, and may have a new job in Cardiology. I have a question for you. I was sleeping the other night and thought I heard someone knocking very loud at the door, it woke me up. No one was there, but it startled me, and I felt an uncomfortable feeling. I get a lot of signs before things happen. Can you explain this to me? Thank You for your time.​PL, San Diego, California       Answer:​It’s not uncommon to get what is called premonition dreams: of things to come. On the other hand, more often, it’s just regular dreaming that is of not much consequence.There’s also another class of dream that is associated with harassment from beings from the yin world. This comes from causes planted from the past. For example, you used to harass your neighbor in a past life. Now he’s become a ghost and wants to get back at you.Left home people like me do not usually indulge in dream interpretations even if we happen to possess such knowledge. We can help when need be. For example, quite a few people dream of past relatives (e.g. deceased parents) who are in distress. Mahayana would have means to extend a lending help toward them and even rescue them from sufferings.Do good and you have nothing to worry about.​I’m glad to hear that things are looking up for you. Please keep in mind that health care professionals are in the business of meddling into others’ business. It’s unfortunate you never had the opportunity to learn of Buddhist Dharmas to help mitigate these forces. Until then, make sure to do good and you can reasonably well weather all storms.