# Repentance for Arrogance

Question: Master,​I sincerely apologize for my arrogance on Saturday [‘s Dharma Talk]. I was more concerned about getting an answer to my question than understanding what you were explaining when you were discussing fighting for promotions and I wanted to know about fighting for a job. I am sorry for my thoughts and actions.      What should I do in these types of situations? Is there a repentance dharma? I know that Long Beach [temple] has a repentance ceremony. Is there a possibility of us having a repentance ceremony in Rosemead [our temple]?​BB, Manhattan Beach, California   Answer:We touched some frayed nerves. Your reaction is just normal.I’m still hoping that you’ll wake up and learn to let go. We can only give with what we have. There is no point in insisting on doing things that we can’t. For example, as you get older and your strength decreases and you can’t be expected to handle the same load that you could when you were younger!For the past few years, I made you sit through your leg pains until they went away by themselves. Can’t you see the parallel? Your job situation is just like the leg pain. Wise people make do and learn to weather the storm. This is what is meant by: “according with conditions.”Your personal growth will also benefit those who depend on you as well. Isn’t your cultural heritage more about sharing what you have rather than expecting an artificial level for standard of living? Meditate on this.Yes, we will have repentance Dharma ceremonies at the temple – eventually. Repentance Dharmas are very important.​For now, I accept your repentance and absolve you of the consequences.