# WBPL Vision

Question:Master:​Had an interesting happening Monday (9/07/09) that brings up a question.​Last Monday while working in my parkway, (I overheard your performing a ceremony at your place) your wood fish did a short Emituofo beat and an ending beat. Shortly after, you appeared to be working on your wall flower and plant garden. This caused me arrogantly and egotistically to wonder if the (wood) fish were directed to me to come see you. Started to do that and thought of the arrogance and didn’t.      I decided to meditate on it to find an answer. About 30 minutes into the, closed eye, meditation [sit] a form began to appear. It was a small Buddha in a purple robe seated on a purple lotus in the center of a shining lighted cross-like, plus sign, of light rays bright white in the middle, cerulean, and light blue on the edges. Thought this form was a positive answer to my question. Went to Viet’s house (where you were), but it was all locked up. Thought you might be in meditation so I left. Went home and decided to e-mail you today (Wednesday 9/09/09). I wouldn’t bother you except for the meditation appearance.​MW, Long Beach, California   Answer:It’s remarkable that your skills are improving.What you had was no hallucination (as you well know by now). It was a blurry glimpse from the Western Bliss Pure Land. That’s why we’ve decided to include this in our Q&A section of our web site so that other people can share in your experience. By the way, other people in our Assembly already have similar such vision.Keep in mind that even at your current spiritual attainment; your spiritual skills are insufficient to be able to see the Western Bliss Pure Land because it is quite far away (10 billion Buddhalands away). You received some assistance.I might even venture to suggest that it is a reminder that at this advanced stage of your life and health conditions, you and your wife should take rebirth into the Western Bliss Pure Land more seriously. Plant the seeds for rebirth and the kindness extended to you and your family will not have been in vain.​If you listen to the MP3 recordings of this year’s lectures and Dharma talks that are posted on our web site, you will learn more about the Pure Land Dharma and the many wonderful responses that our Assembly members have obtained.