# Thyroid Help

Question:Interesting!!!Remember the [30ish] girl I mentioned about at work? The fortunate one [from a well to do family]?​Her mom had thyroid disease (the one where the eyes bulge out) and the doctor told her she might lose her vision later in life. I just spoke with her today and she said her mom went back to Taiwan in July and the doctor said the thyroid problem is gone. I asked what has changed and she didn’t know the answer. When I asked the question I wasn’t thinking about anything.      Then I suddenly remembered that I got her a MMB [Medicine Master Buddha] plaque during the June 13th [2009 Pure Land Dharma] assembly. I wouldn’t have thought much about that either, until Master mentioned about Jenny and her new job. When I got her the plaque I was concerned about her eyes.I went back to check the day I purchased the plaque and the time of her trip and it seems right. The assembly was before she went on her trip. I can’t confirm it, but I’m so happy. It made my day.Thank You!!!​JT, Lake Elsinore, California   Answer: I really appreciate your feedback.It seems that our cultivation is of some benefit to others.You do know how to use plaques to help those who can’t cultivate: at least this kind of Mahayana empowerment Dharma can offer some hope to people. I hope that people will awaken to suffering and take steps to correct their course of actions.​Now you know why it’s such a big deal to be able to have access to a Buddha Hall so that we can organize Dharma Assemblies. Apparently, we’re extending our reach to even beyond Southern California.