# Fear of Flying

Question:​My friend tells me not to fly because of his dream. He indicates things happen in his dream and they are not exactly good. He not only tells me but warns me of flying. He tells me his dreams come true and they often do. One time he told another friend he saw in his dream this friend and his girlfriend went on bike trip and they would have a baby soon after. Low and behold, a year or two later, this couple went on a bike trip and now the girlfriend is 4 months pregnant. So if his dreams hold, then I want to know if there’s other ways other than avoiding flying entirely. I love to travel at the same time I want to enjoy and not worry about flying. Your help is greatly appreciated.​PW, New York       Answer:​That is called premonition-dreams. Your friend has potential.Since you already have the Medicine Master Buddha plaque, it also does provide for accrual for protection against accidental deaths such as automobile crash, air plane accident etc… This will be explained later in our current Medicine Master Sutra lectures.To slice it in a different fashion: the premonition-dreams may reveal existing threats or mal-intentioned forces but they do not necessarily reflect the countervailing protective forces.​You therefore should not fear flying. When you do need to fly, please remember to recite Medicine Master Buddha’s name, i.e. mentally maintain: 藥師如來 (Yao Shi Ru Lai; Dược Sư Như Lai) repeatedly. It’ll calm your mind down while providing for additional protection.