# Opening Spiritual Eyes

Question:Ah also, I’m very interested to know if there is a teacher at Lu Mountain Temple who has opened his (or her) spiritual eye. ​I think I mentioned this in the long message I left. This is important to me because I hear it’s a very rare thing to actually achieve, so I’m interested in hearing about anyone’s personal experience on that topic.Many thanks,​Paul      Answer:Some of us have opened the spiritual eyes and then we have also shut them . It’s no big deal because it’s never an end goal. We practice to unfold our true wisdom, not for little skills like that.​If you are greedy for the insignificant, how can you ever get the “big prize”?  Question (follow up):By my understanding, opening the third eye is no insignificant matter. I have heard from multiple sources that when it is opened, one no longer needs to charge up spiritual energy by focusing on the lower dan tien etc., because it is automatically charged by the third eye, a direct link into the universal energy.​No big deal, little skills, greedy, insignificant. That is not what I’m talking about. To open this third spiritual center, the upper dan tian, is to acquire the ability to live and breathe truth through direct perception of the energetic nature of things. Seeing auras, seeing the internal organs, seeing the link between man and universe clearly and undeniably. No more faith or belief is necessary, it is replaced with clear understanding.  Answer:The opening of the upper dan tian is still very insignificant in regards to our Mahayana practice.​May I suggest that you check your sources more carefully before you believe such non-sense.