# Wish for Rebirth to Western Bliss Pure Land

Question:Dear Master Yong Hua,I tried meditation. I won’t be enlightened doing 30 minutes a day. My mind is full of delusions. The only hope is Other Power Amitabha and Boddhisatvas. ​I want to go to Sukhavati, become a bodhisatva and come back to save beings. What do I practice in the morning and night ?Thank you,​W – Brazil      Answer:This is not a question that can be thoroughly answered in the Q&A section because of its vagueness but I will try.It seems to me that you have read up on the Pure Land Buddha Dharma.​I advise you to choose your sources carefully. For example, there are naysayers as well as blind devotees whose writings are available on the Internet but they are not credible authorities. You are better off consulting reliable sources such as the Buddhist Patriarchs. In particular, I would like to recommend literature written by my late master, Great Master Xuan Hua. His writings are available through the Dharma Realm Buddhist Association website. There is a wealth of accurate and useful information that you can trust.Furthermore, I need to caution you on teachers or people who claim that it is very easy to attain rebirth to the Pure Land: experience from teaching these last several years has proved to me otherwise.In short, you need to get proper information and learn under the guidance of a good teacher. Again stick to those who are near the main branch of Orthodox Buddhism because like most people, it will be difficult to discern right from wrong teachings.If you are able to, I strongly urge you to come and attend our Buddha recitation week to learn about the Pure Land principles and how to recite the Buddha’s name properly. It is best to make this smart initial investment that will pay off handsomely down the road.​Best wishes.