# Disappointed with Life

Question:Emituofo:I a 25-year old who feels rather lost. In the past, I followed my older sister to the temple to eat vegetarian meals and listen to the Dharma lectures.I would like to leave the home life and take refuge under a master in order to learn the proper principles and develop skills to help others. I feel abandoned because my mother has her own separate family as does my father. I feel like an outcast living on the fringe of society.Could you please tell me which temple I should go to practice and learn?​THN      Answer:I am sorry you feel so bad. You need to address this issue immediately or else it could quickly develop into depression unless it has already happened. Depression is a very dangerous mental illness that has no real cure and tends not to get better over time.In my humble opinion, happiness is in finding fulfillment in life rather than in being loved. Case in point, you depended on your parents love and became very unhappy because you are no longer the primary object of their love.Finally, I do not feel that you are ready to leave the home life. Believe it or not, left home people have ideals that run fiercely in their veins. You should commit to learn more about Mahayana as it will help you feel a lot better and bring more meaning to your life.I believe that one should leave the home life to follow a very wise teacher who has mastered Mahayana. It’s the master who you should seek, not the temple. When you do find such a great teacher, be prepared to drop everything to start a new path toward ultimate fulfillment.​Best wishes.