# Should I become a doctor

Question:Ven. Master,Since doctors cure illness, do they interfere with their patients’ retributions? If so, are there any adverse consequences? ​​My life is at a crossroad now. I am not sure whether or not to go into medicine as a profession. While I would like to be able to help others, I am also concerned that it might have adverse effects on my cultivation. I asked many people about it and I was told that there are no adverse retributions because there is no interfering with others’ retributions. ​      However, those who believe that there are karmic consequences would say that I am being selfish and ignorant about Buddhism because the true Buddhist would not hesitate to help others. They would point out that how could we not be willing to help the poor and needy (seeing others getting sick and not help?)Honestly, I am very confused about the matter. Will you kindly please clarify it for me?I read a few of your Dharma talks and found them to be very useful and remarkable. I really would like to get your Chan Handbook but could not yet afford it because I am a student. I have been cultivating in secret because my parents are against it. I do realize that to cultivate the Proper Dharma requires a lot of sincerity: I will have to try even harder.I wish you good health and much progress on your cultivation path! Please forgive my afflictions.​NVV  Answer:Yes, doctors do create offenses by healing others. One must pay a price for meddling into others’ karmic retributions. In fact, doctors do end up shouldering their patients’ karmic burdens. Such is the law of cause and effect.All professions entail creating karmic offenses of one kind or another!Regardless, you should choose a profession that you are passionate about. The true Buddhist would never hesitate to go into medicine because of fearing karmic consequences. There is a price to pay for doing good: that is the way of the Mahayana Buddhists.​Should you choose to become a doctor, you can go to the temple and learn Dharmas that can help provide protection and mitigate the karmic consequences of your profession. For example, doctors should recite the Medicine Master Mantra or Great Compassion Mantra.