# Recitation Machine

Question:Ven. Master:I practice the Pure Land Dharma Door and have a few questions that I hope you will help clarify for me! – I leave the Buddha recitation machine on when I go to bed. Is there a difference between the Buddha recitation seeds during sleep and when I am awake?– I frequently listen to the Buddha recitation machine. Every now and then I have the urge to recite the Buddha’s name and then would hear the recitation sound from the machine. How does that affect my chances of rebirth?– When I recite the Buddha’s name, my mind feels cool and refreshed and I often feel a rush. Is that state actually the Buddha and Bodhisattvas’ help as described in the sutras? However, some CDs say that such state is the result of being touched by yin beings…Please explain for my sake in order for me to stop worrying and having doubts!Finally, I wish you health and bliss so that you can quickly realize the Way!Emituofo​HNT​      Answer:Leaving the recitation machine on at night is a good thing. It will continue to plant recitation seeds in your psyche. Of course they are not the same because while you are awake, the recitation seeds have more samadhi power by nature.The more you recite the Buddha’s name, the more rebirth blessings you have.The key is not necessarily the quantity but quality of your recitation. Therefore, when you concentrate more on your recitation, the rebirth blessings are far greater. This is why, when we train our students on the Pure Land Dharma Door, we stress developing the Buddha recitation samadhi through the proper technique.Instead of consulting the various resources indiscriminately, you should instead pick and choose the proper Pure Land authority. I personally would not waste time with materials unless it is from a Buddhist Patriarch.​For example, your CD source regarding the yin being is totally wrong. I would discard all materials from such a source.