# How to Receive Transmission of 42 Hands and Eyes

Question:Dear Sangha,I am writing from North Bay, California. I would like to ask if there are prerequisites for receiving teaching from your monastery on the 42 hands and eyes.I am a lay Buddhist practicing from home.​I am very interested about the 42 hands and eyes dharma practice.Thank you for your guidance.Sincerely,JC      Answer:Thank you for your interest.As you already know, the 42 Hands & Eyes are a secret Buddhist Dharma that requires transmission before it can be practiced. To practice this Dharma without the transmission from an authorized master would constitute Dharma theft which is a very serious offense. First of all, if one tried to practice this Dharma without authorized transmission, one would not be able to accomplish it. Also one would be prevented from ever receiving proper transmission in the future. More seriously, having committed Dharma theft, one would fall to the lower realms upon death.Most of the available materials on the internet are inaccurate and incomplete and should be ignored. The only way to practice this Dharma is with the help of your Good Knowing Adviser.​We only transmit it to our Buddhist disciples (i.e. those who took refuge with our Master) who are selected to be Dharma Vessels by our Master, Ven. YongHua. In general, Dharma Vessels are people who are regulars to our Way place, have made significant contributions to Mahayana or wish to actively help propagate the Proper Dharma as transmitted to our Master by his teacher, Great Master XuanHua.