# Wishing to attain liberation

Question:Ven. Master,I am a lay disciple.I took refuge with my Master at my village in 2010.Recently, I  set up an altar at home to worship the Buddha. ​Each morning, I offer incense and make the vow for rebirth to the Pure Land. I do not have a lot of time to recite sutras or recite the Buddha’s name. I have two children of school age who keep me quite busy.After I learned about Buddhism I resolved to attain liberation this lifetime. My wish is that my two children would someday leave the home life and cultivate vigorously in order to help society and others.I don’t know which Dharma Door to cultivate or how to cultivate it. Many people advised me to cultivate Pure Land. My husband does not want me to go to the temple, except for on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month. Often, he scolds and berates me severely. It makes me quite upset but I do not know what to do. My husband is much older than me.Please kindly tell me what to do?Emituofo!Thank you very much.​NTTT      Answer:It is a good thing that your husband allowed you to set up an altar at home.You should take advantage of it and bow to the Buddha for an hour every day. Make time for it. You will eventually find that the bowing time makes up for increased peace of mind and well-being.Then you should go to the temple and request to be taught how to recite the Buddha’s name. You can do this all day without going to the temple, while doing the household chores.Whenever you have the chance, go to the temple and create more merit and virtue: recite sutras, bow repentances, recite the Buddha’s name, volunteer your time and make offerings.When your husband scolds you, you should bow more sincerely at the altar and repent for your past offenses toward him that causes him to be mean to you.​If you wish to attain rebirth to the Pure Land this lifetime, you must recite the Buddha’s name more earnestly and create more infinite blessings with the Triple Jewel.