# Summer Chan Qi Feedback

Question:Dear Master,First of all, I would like to pay my respects to you in thanks for organizing the Chan Qi retreat for us. During the one month I stayed at Lu Mountain Temple, it felt like I was living in a small version of the Mahayana Pure Land and that you were the Cardinal who with altruism saved living beings by teaching us the meditation dharma.​Lu Mountain Temple is a calm, relaxing, dignified place, and very suitable for meditation. While there, I learned a lot of meaningful things: Spiritual cultivation practice is the best daily activity; we should have no fear of suffering (that is, we should be willing to accept the suffering and have patience to bear it when most people do not); and do not be satisfied with what we have achieved. You have taught us that we should not waste our samadhi energy with false thoughts. This energy which is on a higher plane is unconditional but it is lost when we think false thoughts because they are conditional.      Currently, I do not have any difficulty in sitting while meditating. Each day, I meditate for 2 hours and my experience is exciting, pleasant:– In the morning (1 hour): sitting in full lotus, reciting Shurangama Sutra and the Buddha’s name.– In the evening (1 hour): sitting in full lotus, reciting the Buddha name, the Great Compassion Sutra, and the Ten Small Sutras.While sitting, I am thoughtful: I inhale and exhale from the navel. I feel so comfortable and pleasant.Now, I sincerely request that you teach me more. At this point, what and how should I practice? Many thanks to you, Master.Sincerely,​TA  ​​Answer:Toward the last week, your blessings were falling short.It is hard to continue making progress when blessings are inadequate.​Therefore you should actively create more blessings. Create great merit and virtue and you will get great benefits.