# Helping Niece With Mental Challenges

Question:Ven. Master,I have a niece (my brother’s daughter) who is 16 years old. Her physical body is developing normally but her mind is not. Her mind is that of a 2-year old: she cannot speak, she has no memory, and she needs help to bathe.Occasionally, she goes into a fit and destroys everything in sight. Her parents are very sad and miserable as they have taken care of her for all these years.I’ve come to realize that my brother’s family and my niece have very heavy karmic obstructions. Therefore, on my niece’s behalf, I often repent, recite sutras and recite the Great Compassion Mantra, hoping to lighten her karmic retribution.Is my thinking correct? If so, can my actions have any positive effect?Please teach me how to help diminish her karmic obstructions and to turn her toward the Triple Jewel for guidance and help.Thank you very much and I wish you good health.Respectfully,​TA      Answer:You are right in trying to alleviate your niece’s karmic retributions.Apparently, your brother and his wife owe her. They also need help.Your actions have helped to some extent, but perhaps they are not timely to have much impact. And I hope I am not offending you, but your gongfu is not that strong yet. It is like trying to chip away at a large rock with a small hammer. However, you could request help from people who are stronger than you and are trained in this kind of spiritual work.The Chinese tradition has Dharmas such as Medicine Master Buddha (look for the explanation of the Medicine Master Sutra on our web site) and Past Creditors (rebirth Dharma).​When you have the chance to come to the temple, we can give you more detail and referrals.