# Medicine Master Buddha Dharma

Question:Greetings Ven. Master!I think I found you because of Medicine Master Buddha’s guidance! I have always recited Medicine​Master Buddha’s name albeit not that frequently! I hope that you will clarify a few things for me!!!​      1) Should I recite his name or his mantra?2) What does the Medicine Master Buddha Dharma involve? In Vietnam, there are quite a few monks who practice this Dharma. Please teach me how to cultivate it.3) My father and younger sibling seem to be harassed by yin beings. They often claim that someone has cast a voodoo spell on them. They appear to be healthy but they [sometimes] speak strangely. Once, in the middle of the night, they went off by themselves to light incense at a small stupa. They then talked to themselves, berating others etc… What can we do? There is no way to convince them to recite the Buddha’s name. Please help us!!!​BT  Answer:Greetings to you.1. You should continue to recite his name, but more frequently every day. It’s not advisable to recite his mantra because it will require much from you, including that you become vegetarian, abstain onion and garlic, and more.2. You should go and seek advice from those monks in Vietnam who practice the Medicine Master Buddha Dharma. I am not sure how they go about it. Nevertheless, I advise to start with bowing to Medicine Master Buddha every day for half an hour to an hour. You can also place the Medicine Master Sutra on the altar and make offerings to it frequently. That is how I would get started: by bowing and making offerings.3. It would appear that your father and younger sibling are possessed by yin beings, as you suspect. This is not good because the rest of your family is also exposed to possible problems. Perhaps you should ask those monks you mentioned above for help? If you were here in the US, there are competent temples that can really help that I would be able to recommend. Unfortunately, I don’t know of a temple in Vietnam to suggest. There should be, but I am not aware of any. Perhaps, if you bow, make offerings to the Sutra, and recite his name more sincerely, he’ll point you to the right one.​My best wishes!