# Resolving Wife and Mother Enmity Part III

Question:Dear Master,Amituofo. Thank you for the advice.Previously I went to CTTB (once to attend GuanYin dharma session) and once a year I will also go to the Guan Yin Sagely temple in Kuala Lumpur (DRBA branch).What type of help should I ask ?​In CTTB, there is a plague offering to remove past creditor debt and Karma. Will that help ? How should I do it ?Please kindly advice.ThanksAmituofoKoonPeace in Dharma      Answer:Dear Very Afflicted:I am sorry that the conflict between your wife and mom makes you so afflicted. You should have ask for advice from the Sanghans at the temple you frequent. Since you have been patiently seeking advice from us, allow me to offer a few more insights:1. It is true the conflict arise from past enmity between the two of them. Therefore, you are correct in assuming that settling the past debt will resolve the problem.2. The better approach is to get the permanent Medicine Master Buddha Plaque for your mother which will eventually resolve the problem. There’s more explanation on the Medicine Master Buddha Dharma that can be found on our website: ​http://bli2pl.ntcomp.com/www/media/publications/Medicine_Master_Sutra_SYH.pdf3. Depending on the skills of the temple where the plaque is requested. Your mother’s well-being will be proportionally addressed. And yes, the plaque at CTTB ranks amongst the better ones.If there’s anything else, we can do for you. Please feel free to contact us.Best Wishes,Emituofo,​Master YongHua