# Resolving Wife and Mother Enmity Part II

Question:Dear Master YongHua,Thank you for spending the effort in explaining to me.Firstly I am not imposing my belief on my loves one. They are Buddhist originally. Especially my mother but with a lot of superstitious add in.Yes, I am trying to dedicate my daily practise to her such that she can be reborn in pureland. But is difficult for her to change her bad habits. Currently she is doing her morning pureland prayer and recite the Ksitigarbha sutra.      As for my wife, she is also a very devote Buddhist, now practising shurangama. But somehow the enmity she and mother have is so deep. She hate my mother so much.I wonder why must we wait until the person dies, then we can change that person ?Is like the story of Bright Eyes or the Brahman Girl in Ksitigarbha Sutra who only able to save her mother when her mother drop into  the three evil paths.There is no method of dharma I can use to make the situation better ?Must I wait until my mother die, or my wife die, then I can do something ?These must be all the ignorance of human realm.Also, this must be my karmic obstacles in this life.If master has any other advice for me, do kindly tell me.Thank you.​Namo Amituofo.  Answer:We are sorry about your family situation.Perhaps you should understand that  is their mutual karmic retribution, not to mention yours as well.At times, one must realize that there is only so much one can do, it does not hurt to go to a competent temple to ask for help to alleviate the karmic retributions of all the people involved.Emituofo,​SYH