# Great Compassion Mantra Transmission

Question:Ven. Master,​I read your instructions on maintaining the Great Compassion Mantra and now realize that it is more effective to receive transmission before practicing it. Also, it is my understanding that if we had conditions with Great Master Xuan Hua, we should go to his temples or seek out his students to make the request for transmission.      After we receive transmission, it will be much easier to practice it. Furthermore, the Great Master’s disciples can also instruct on how to maintain the mantra.Therefore, I would like to request instructions from you. How do I properly make this request?Emituofo,​HA  Answer:It is better to make such a request in person because it shows sincerity.However, I am not stuck on formalities. I will make an exception and will transmit this mantra to you. It is a wonderful mantra that will give you inconceivable benefits if you know how to practice it.Your first goal should be to memorize it.Start with reciting it 5 or 21 or 108 times: commit to a number and do it every day, religiously.After you sincerely recite it daily for a while, you will naturally want to do the following when possible:Abstain from eating onion and garlic, leeks, shallots, etc…Keep the Five PreceptsBecome vegetarian if possible.The overall objective is to recite single-mindedly.I hope you will also consider obtaining my book, “The Chan Handbook: The Learner’s Guide to Meditation.” The English version should be available on ebook formats on Kindle, Kobo, iBooks or Nook. It is also available for iPad via iTunes. The hard copies are available on Amazon (click here for details) .It explains the fundamentals of Buddhist practices that are also applicable to maintaining mantras.Best of luck to you.