# Eliminate Three Poisons with Recitation

​Question:Greetings to you, Master! I have a few questions.​In the Universal Chapter [of the Lotus Sutra], Shakyamuni Buddha says that those who recite GuanYin’s name will be able to eliminate greed, hatred and stupidity… Therefore, how should I go about reciting her name in order to achieve those objectives? I am not particularly worried about hatred and stupidity, however, my sexual desires are particularly strong.       After I recited for a few weeks the demon of sexual desires harassed me constantly, urging me to look at inappropriate films or controlling myself. I believe it’s because of habit energies from prior lives!I believe that the Buddhist sutras are very profound and that I do not yet fully understand them. Please help clarify their meaning to me. Each day, I still recite GuanYin’s name during the four comportments of walking, standing, lying or sitting. Is there anything that I am missing?As per the Buddha’s golden mouth, whoever is in difficulty can pray to GuanYin, Earth Store Bodhisattva, Medicine Master Buddha etc… to get help for themselves or for others, is that right? In Master XuanHua’s explanations of the Earth Store Sutra, he says that if we recite the Six Great Characters Mantra of GuanYin, then Earth Store Bodhisattva will bless us with happiness, peace and bliss because he really likes all of us to recite that mantra. Did I state that correctly? I have some doubts about this matter!I started reciting GuanYin’s name for three months now in all of my four comportments. I try to become single-minded like Amitabha Buddha: at night, I concentrate in reciting GuanYin’s name for 30 minutes with my recitation beads. I worship Medicine Master Buddha (I recite his mantra in the morning), I recite GuanYin and Earth Store Bodhisattvas’ names in the evening. Is that appropriate?Thank you! I apologize for my wordiness! Please kindly instruct me!​MD  Answer:Just like learning any craft, you need time to perfect it. Just keep at it and one day you’ll perfect it.To be honest with you, I have been reciting the Bodhisattvas’ names for over twenty years and yet I still have the three poisons. In all fairness, my three poisons are considerably a lot less than I when first started. Why? It’s like washing our hands: the more grime and grease we have accumulated, the longer it takes to wash them clean. If we stop then our hands will never be clean. Keep on washing and let nature take its course: we will eventually get there!If you can’t control your urges then you need help temporarily. One way is to ask for help from the Triple Jewel: that is the “Others’ Power” part of the help. Another way is to confess or repent to others publicly: perhaps shame will help because so far there is no penalty for making that kind of mistake. In brief, keep on trying.The one thing that will help for sure is to recite GuanYin’s name more fervently when you have the urge and continue until the urge goes away instead of succumbing to it. Keep at it until your urges can be controlled and eventually they will die down.You still seem to be greedy for quick fixes. It takes four years to earn a Bachelor’s degree and yet you wish to get what you want by reciting the Bodhisattvas’ names only after doing it for three months?Keep reciting and stop being so greedy. When you recite their names, you are requesting for help. It takes a while before you are “worthy” to be helped. Better yet, stop demanding for responses: just keep on scrubbing until your hands are clean.​There is nothing wrong with your practice. Perhaps, you could learn from the Chan School to increase your concentration power to receive even more benefit out of your daily practice.