# Thanksgiving 2011

Some feedback from participants to our Dharma Assemblies​First, let me share with you some very encouraging words from people who came to our modest Dharma Assemblies this year.      "Did you visit Honolulu in early September? It was wonderful that Master YongHua came. I did not have a such great awakening about Buddhism until the Master came here. I am very thankful to your group came. My life has changed, I love to spend time to study Buddhism now...”~ Jade from HonoluluOur Pure Land Group is enthusiastically preparing for the GuanYin Dharma Assembly coming up on October 22, 2011 in San Jose. May I share with you some great news?In the previous Dharma Assembly a few months ago, QDH offered to take care of lunch for the temple (over 150 people came to that Dharma Assembly) as an offering to you and the venerated sangha in order to dedicate the merit and virtue to her grandchild. He was in the ninth grade and neglected his studies because he chose to use drugs with his friends. Her entire family was very distraught because of this. After that lunch, she brought him to see the master and requested the use of the Medicine Master Buddha Dharma to rescue him. The master talked to him briefly and rubbed the crown of his head.Miraculously, one month later, he promised his parents that he would no longer hang out with his bad friends. Last week, his report card showed two A’s, one B and one C. His parents were so happy that they were in tears, not to mention his grand-parents. Therefore this upcoming Dharma Assembly, she asked to offer up the lunch again in order to transfer the merit and virtue to her grand-child.“I thought that you’d like to hear these great news so as your group not to be daunted by the long drive from Los Angeles to San Jose for the Dharma Assembly.”~ NN, San JoseWe are thankful for the supportEach time we organize a Dharma Assembly away from our temple, a lot of our people would tag along. For example, close to thirty people drove up from Los Angeles to San Jose for the last Dharma Assembly in San Jose a few months ago. As usual, they had a few hours of sleep and got up to participate from 7 am until 7 pm upon which we started driving back to Los Angeles for our regular Sunday service which started at 8 am.We are particularly grateful for:The country for providing us with its generous and unqualified support.Our parents and ancestors for bringing us to this world.Our teachers for giving us our knowledge and wisdom.The Triple Jewel for guiding, aiding and protecting us.Also, we are very grateful for the kind words of feedback and selfless support from our Dharma protectors.We hope to be able to continue our Pure Land Mahayana propagation in order to benefit all living beings, and not for the sake of profit or fame.Shakya YongHua