# An invitation to this month’s Chan Qi

​We’d like to cordially invite you to come and participate in a Chan Qi that will be held at the end of this month during the Memorial Day weekend (5/28/11-6/4/11).  ​More details can be found on our English and Vietnamese web sites:www.chanpureland.com and www.TinhDoDaiThua.org.       We’ve just decided to organize this Chan Qi in addition to our customary annual Chan Qi at the end of the year because the last Chan Qi’s participants have had very good responses, more so than the year before.  We advocate cultivating Chan and Pure Land in parallel and therefore take Chan training very seriously because it can help quickly increase samadhi.​Although the daily meditation schedule is from 3am until midnight, people can come and participate in as many sessions as possible.  We can provide instructions and assistance to the novice practitioners or the advanced ones.  Everyone is free to use the opportunity to cultivate their own meditation technique and obtain answers to obstructions to their practice.  We will also provide instructions on a special meditation technique called GuanYin meditation (contemplating the sound).Since we’ve started transmitting the Guan Yin Dharma door of GuanYin Bodhisattva eight months ago, many of our students have demonstrated good progress: several have reached the first major milestone.  One student reported entering samadhi for an hour at home.  Another reported that while she attended our weekend Sunday short practice session the beginning last month, she saw GuanYin Bodhisattva dressed in white appear in the Buddha Hall at the end of the silent sit  when she opened her eyes.If you are curious and wish to learn this very effective meditation technique, please reserve a spot as soon as possible.  Participation is free of charge as per our tradition of not charging for Dharma events.  It is a small way, our attempt to payback the kindness of our teachers and most generous support from the community.  Since our temple is rather modest in size, we can only provide accommodations to 50 participants.Please do join us.Sincerely,Emituofo,​Master YongHua.