# Happiness and the Six Worthy Ways

To be in a state of happiness you must learn to be happy with yourself and live so that others are also happy with you. Seekers of happiness should therefore live their life according to the six worthy ways:      1. Keep Yourself Healthy and FitEveryone understands the importance of taking care of their health. This means that you should pay attention to your diet and, at the same time, maintain a regular exercise schedule to be fit.In particular, we highly recommend a more vegetarian diet. People simply fail to understand that a poor diet loads their bodies with toxins that cause illness. People who become vegetarians quickly discover improved health and increased energy.2. Be Wholesome in Every WayFurthermore, the importance of the mental health cannot be underestimated. Happiness is founded upon a good state of mind.Do away with negative thoughts such as envy, greed, arrogance, etc. Throw them out as you would venomous snakes. Negative thoughts will definitely cause great harm to you and your loved ones. Make no mistake about it, by nurturing unwholesome thoughts, you are teaching your children to be just like you!3. Listen to Those With More ExperienceLearn to seek advice from others, particularly those who have been around the block.Avoid reinventing the wheel and learn to trust experienced people. Be grateful when advice is offered.4. Learn from Those with More KnowledgeSeek out knowledgeable people. Find a mentor at work if you wish for a more solid and productive career.Respect those who can teach you because they can enrich your life. Learn to systematically seek out knowledgeable people to help point you to the right direction.5. Live According to TruthBe truthful.Truth is the basis for trust in all relationships. Trust is more important than material gains or benefits.6. Act With Sincerity, Not Just EnergyEnergy is another word for vigor, a necessary ingredient in ensuring that we can reach our goals.Sincerity calls for real action, not just promises.​For example, students who follow our meditation training over several years are living proof of the above-mentioned six worthy ways. They report being happier and satisfied – are you?