# Spotting Good Knowing Advisors

​What is a Good Knowing Advisor?Why is the ability to recognize GKAs important?​How Does One Recognize a GKA?​The term, good knowing advisor (GKA) comes from the Chinese 善知識 (shàn zhi shì). When I first started teaching, I abbreviated it to wise advisor but later reverted back to GKA because it is more appropriate.       What is a Good Knowing Advisor?Let’s break it down so we can understand what the wise Chinese patriarchs meant.Good 善 (shàn): This points out that the person is:A good person andKnows about goodness.Goodness is clearly defined by the Buddhist precepts (rules of morality). For example, a good person does not tell lies, does not steal from others, and does not indulge in acts of killing (even for sport).Goodness transcends cultural, temporal, and individual definition limits. For example, what is good in Africa must also be good in Latin America, in all times, and independent of individual interpretations.Knowing 知 (zhi): Knowledge comes with study. A knowledgeable person has invested time in the learning process. For example, the Sanghans of old were required to study the Buddhist moral precepts for five years, before they were allowed to learn Buddhist teachings or practice meditation.Today, however, novice left home people rarely invest much time in the study of Buddhist precepts, therefore, leaving them less qualified to be a GKA.Advisor 識 (shì): while knowing refers to internal development, advisor is its external counterpart. An advisor is able to recognize where you are and wisely direct your progress on your personal dharma path.Without the wisdom to perceive your personal environment and your personal mental and spiritual condition, an advisor cannot be very useful.In short, a GKA is a good person who knows what is best for you.Why is the ability to recognize GKAs important?This is a distinguishing characteristic of Mahayana cultivation.Cultivators with superior blessings tend to encounter teachers who urge them to look for good knowing advisors who can guide them in their practice.Why? If you are already wise and sure of yourself, there is no need for cultivation or a GKA. On the other hand, if you sometimes find yourself unable to cope with life’s complexities and pressures, you may want to consider cultivation. Cultivation enables you to contemplate challenges and difficulties from another perspective, making solutions apparent, thus improving the quality of your life.Further, Mahayana cultivation stresses the importance of learning under a GKA because:It saves time. Learning by trial and error can be an inefficient and trying process. Having a mentor can help you overcome difficulties quickly; allowing you to become proficient in your endeavors sooner than you could by yourself. This is true of both professional work and your spiritual cultivation.It is easier. With guidance, you avoid mistakes that could discourage you, thus, slowing or stopping your progress.You are made aware of personal shortcomings that you must overcome. Recognizing our deficiencies is often the most difficult part of making progress. The first step in turning on the lights is being aware that it is dark.Frankly, we should seek out GKAs until we reach Fourth Stage Arhatship. Until then, we can go astray and not even know it. In fact, many higher level cultivators prefer to cultivate under the direction and guidance of a GKA.How Does One Recognize a GKA?My late teacher, Great Master Xuan Hua who founded the Dharma Realm Buddhist Association was often asked this question.His answer was that GKAs are not greedy for:Fame: in particular, many Sanghans fall victim to this under the guise of aspiring to help more people. Famous individuals are not necessarily able to help more people. In fact, if you are attached to fame, your primary goal is to cultivate your ego, and do not have the wisdom to truly help others.Profit: if you’re attached to profits it is difficult to be impartial and you tend not to put the interests of others before your own. It also makes it difficult to accept a loss – a necessity when helping others.I have also asked this question over the years and often pondered my teacher’s answers. Today, I’ll add a few more to help those of you who are sincerely looking for GKAs.A GKA’s answers to your questions are amazingly simple and direct. If they are really wise, they can cut through the fog effortlessly. A Chinese saying states: “While confused, a thousand volumes are inadequate; after enlightenment, one word is too many.” For example, when I had my first personal audience with my late teacher, within one minute, Great Master Xuan Hua uttered a few sentences that allowed me to leave the home life under him, reassured me that everything would work out well, and transmitted to me my personal Dharma. I did not realize that he gave me my Dharma until ten years later, after his death. As a result, I will spend the rest of my life cultivating this particular Dharma Door. Now, that’s real wisdom and real foresight!GKAs tend to be left home people. I do know of quite a few very wise individuals who are lay people. When I asked why they do not teach, I was told that the BuddhaDharma is transmitted by Sanghans and not lay people. These folks are certainly qualified to be GKAs, yet they prefer to work behind the scene in supportive roles.I’m not sure how the other monks feel about it, but it does make me feel more humble and motivates me to cultivate more vigorously so as not to embarrass the sangha in front of these superior individuals.GKAs never hesitate to refer you to another GKA. You do not need to stealthily go behind a GKA’s back to seek the advice of another GKA. When the time comes, a true GKA recognizes that it is better for you to move on to greener pastures. For example, in chapter 39 of the Avatamsaka Sutra, titled “Entering the Dharma Realm”. Good Wealth Bodhisattva first met with Manjushri Bodhisattva and asked for instructions on how to become enlightened. Even though Manjushri could have easily taught Good Wealth everything himself, he instead referred Good Wealth to other GKAs who subsequently referred Good Wealth to other GKAs. Good Wealth followed their advice and learned from the referred teachers, and ultimately became enlightened.GKAs are grateful to their benefactors. Gratitude is the basis of humanity. Wise people recognize those to whom they are indebted and work hard to repay their kindness. In particular, GKAs often express gratitude toward their GKAs and the better GKAs are the ones who serve their own GKAs.​The more you learn about Mahayana, the more you’ll know how to recognize them. I’ve enumerated just a few points to help you get started. When you do find a GKA, please let me know so that I too have the opportunity to learn from a good and wise teacher.