# Righteousness Brings Love

​A rich wife went home to visit her family. Her female servant came along, carrying the lady’s jewelry box. The servant misplaced the jewelry box. It was later that she realized it and therefore frantically went looking for it. She saw a beggar sitting by the roadside holding the jewelry box. She immediately came over and claimed it. The beggar immediately returned the jewelry box to her.      ​The female servant was so happy. She took off her bracelet and gave it to the beggar, who replied, “The jewelry box didn’t even tempt me. Why would I want your bracelet?” The female servant said, “I lost this jewelry box and for that I deserve severe punishment. You gave it back to me and thereby not only gave me precious things but also saved my life. Even though you ask for no reward, I cannot be ungrateful. I live not too far from here, please come over at meal times and I’ll be happy to share my food with you.” The beggar replied, “You are inside, how could you know that I arrived?” She said, “In front of my room, there is a tall bamboo tree. Please shake it to signal me that you are there.” So he did as agreed and she would share her food with him every day. The other servants found out and reported it to the owner who immediately called in the female servant to investigate. After hearing her story, the benevolent owner called in the beggar, gave him a job and gave him the female servants’ hand. They continued to earn the trust of the owner and were well-rewarded. They lived happily ever after.  * * * * *   Poor and yet not greedy. One should repay one’s debt of gratitude. Ancient love story!