# Visiting A Statesman

​A stateman official came into office. His populace organized a great feast to celebrate. Toward the end of the celebration, an old man wearing a coarse white robe also came to see the statesman. He immediately put on his best clothes to go greet the visitor and said, “Our king does not realize that I have no talent and yet is too trusting. That’s why he appointed me to this post. I’m very grateful for the warm welcome. Now that you came for a visit, you surely must have something in mind.”      ​The old man said, “Indeed, I do. Men of power who are arrogant will be criticized by people. Men of high position who are despotic will be disliked by the king. When one’s renumeration is high and yet one is still corrupt then disaster and calamities will fall upon oneself.” The staesman put his palms to gether and said, “Thank you for your words of wisdom. Please teach me more.” The old man continued, “When in a position of authority, one must be humble and respectful. When one has power then one must be subtle and gentle. Well compensated officials who are corrupt will get into trouble. Please keep in mind those three things while carrying out your duties.”  * * * * *   Poor and lowly people who learn the way of merit and virtue can gain wealth and status. Rich and powerful people who are virtuous will be able to enjoy their blessings longer. Rich and powerful people who are arrogant and self-indulgent will invariably enounter troubles and difficulties. The old man’s words equally are applicable to statesmen as well as the rich and privileged. Finally, wealth and power are manifestations of one’s blessings. Take advantage to replenish your blessings before they are used up.