# Wisdom and Humaneness

Confucius asked his disciple ZiLu, “What kind of man has wisdom? What kind of man is humane?”ZiLu replied, “A wise man knows how to make others know you. A humane person knows how to make others love you.”​Confucius said, “You are surely a man of learning.”      ​Confucius then asked his disciple ZiGong, “What kind of man has wisdom? What kind of man is humane?”ZiGong replied, “A wise man knows others well. A humane person knows how to love others.”Confucius said, “You are surely a man of learning.”Confucius asked his disciple YanHui, “What kind of man has wisdom? What kind of man is humane?”YanHui replied, “A wise man knows himself. A humane person loves himself.”Confucius said, “You are surely a superior man.” * * * * *  Worldly knowledge and wisdom emphasizes the development of talents and knowledge for personal benefit, ultimately to serve oneself. That is the level of ZiLu and ZiGong.In comparison, the superior man prizes the way of virtue and the principles which require the ability to know and love oneself. To know oneself is to accept one’s flaws and limitations. Then one can more effectively help oneself and others. To love one self is to have self-respect and value righteousness. That way one can avoid doing evil and thereby do only good. As a result he leaves a good name for himself and for future generations.​Although Confucius taught his disciples using the same lesson, their understanding differed because of their personal intellectual capacities.