# The Shakyamuni Sharira (Relic) Collection

​During the 2012 year-end Chan Qi (meditation retreat) a man came for one full week. He practiced vigorously and because of his sincere effort, he received many spiritual, physical and emotional benefits. Therefore in gratitude, he offered his collection of 10,000 Shakyamuni shariras to the temple. He had been collecting shariras for several years.       So, on Monday January 21, 2013, I led a small delegation to Oakland to pick up the shariras and brought them back to the temple.A few people who have heard of the gift questioned its authenticity. I replied, if the collection is real then the Mahayana Dharma Protectors will come forth to donate funds to build a magnificent stupa to house it and for the entire country to come and pray.Those who are very sincere will obtain a response to their prayers.I have already observed a few responses from those who come to the temple on a regular basis. Most of them are not even aware of its presence here because I have yet to make an announcement.For example, many of the older ladies who come to our temple for our weekend services feel invigorated. This is because the presence of the shariras creates an exceptionally powerful positive force field. Those who have developed some gongfu will eventually notice that it is much easier to concentrate and enter samadhi while at the temple than at home.In particular, there is a sweet older Chinese lady who very rarely speaks. When she occasionally attends temple on Sunday, she would quietly sit on a bench and listen to the Dharma Talk and would then leave by lunch time. Many times if she ate lunch with us, she would not talk to anyone. And yet, last Sunday, she looked effervescent and happier than usual. And boy did she talk to her neighbors at the lunch table!Today, my disciple brought her six-year old son to the temple. This young boy is not a stranger to the Emergency Room as he has had other medical problems. The boy complained of pain in his heart. His mother decided to bring him to the temple for lunch to observe his condition before taking him to the hospital. The boy appeared to be uncomfortable and had a scowl on his face when he was given food. But half an hour later, he was running around the temple grounds. Apparently whatever bothered him cleared up in no time, so they went home.One of my Western disciples inquired about the authenticity of the shariras. I told her that my opinion carried little weight. Ultimately what matters are the responses that people will receive when they come to request a son or daughter, healing for their illnesses, relief for their traumas and anxieties, etc… I am sure that more people will share their experiences as time goes by.​I was told that the ghosts and spirits will come and bow to the shariras and consequently will obtain immediate liberation (immediately give up their ghost or spirit existence and obtain rebirth to a higher realm of existence). How do they know of the presence of the shariras? They can see the wondrous light emanating from them. You too will be able to see their brilliance, once you cultivate more vigorously and purify your heart.